README.md, before:

# finetrainers 🧪

Finetrainers is a work-in-progress library to support (accessible) training of diffusion models. Our first priority is to support LoRA training for all popular video models in [Diffusers](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers), and eventually other methods like controlnets, control-loras, distillation, etc.

<table align="center">
<tr>
  <td align="center"><video src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/aad07161-87cb-4784-9e6b-16d06581e3e5">Your browser does not support the video tag.</video></td>
  <td align="center"><video src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c23d53e2-b422-4084-9156-3fce9fd01dad">Your browser does not support the video tag.</video></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <th align="center">CogVideoX LoRA training as the first iteration of this project</th>
  <th align="center">Replication of PikaEffects</th>
</tr>
</table>

## Table of Contents

- [Quickstart](#quickstart)
- [Features](#features)
- [News](#news)
- [Support Matrix](#support-matrix)
- [Featured Projects](#featured-projects-)
- [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)

## Quickstart

Clone the repository and make sure the requirements are installed: `pip install -r requirements.txt` and install `diffusers` from source by `pip install git+https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers`. The requirements specify `diffusers>=0.32.1`, but it is always recommended to use the `main` branch of Diffusers for the latest features and bugfixes. Note that the `main` branch for `finetrainers` is also the development branch, and stable support should be expected from the release tags.

Checkout to the latest stable release tag:

```bash
git fetch --all --tags
git checkout tags/v0.1.0
```

Follow the instructions mentioned in the [README](https://github.com/a-r-r-o-w/finetrainers/tree/v0.1.0) for the latest stable release.

#### Using the main branch

To get started quickly with example training scripts on the main development branch, refer to the following:
- [LTX-Video Pika Effects Crush](./examples/training/sft/ltx_video/crush_smol_lora/)
- [CogVideoX Pika Effects Crush](./examples/training/sft/cogvideox/crush_smol_lora/)
- [Wan T2V Pika Effects Crush](./examples/training/sft/wan/crush_smol_lora/)

The following are some simple datasets/HF orgs with good datasets to test training with quickly:
- [Disney Video Generation Dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/Wild-Heart/Disney-VideoGeneration-Dataset)
- [bigdatapw Video Dataset Collection](https://huggingface.co/bigdata-pw)
- [Finetrainers HF Dataset Collection](https://huggingface.co/finetrainers)

Please checkout [`docs/models`](./docs/models/) and [`examples/training`](./examples/training/) to learn more about supported models for training & example reproducible training launch scripts.

> [!IMPORTANT] 
> It is recommended to use Pytorch 2.5.1 or above for training. Previous versions can lead to completely black videos, OOM errors, or other issues and are not tested. For fully reproducible training, please use the same environment as mentioned in [environment.md](./docs/environment.md).

## Features

- DDP, FSDP-2 & HSDP support for all models with low-rank and full-rank training
- Memory-efficient single-GPU training
- Auto-detection of commonly used dataset formats
- Combined image/video datasets, multiple chainable local/remote datasets, multi-resolution bucketing & more
- Memory-efficient precomputation support with/without on-the-fly precomputation for large scale datasets
- Standardized model specification format for training arbitrary models
- Fake FP8 training (QAT upcoming!)

## News

- 🔥 **2025-04-08**: `torch.compile` support added!
- 🔥 **2025-04-06**: Flux support added!
- 🔥 **2025-03-07**: CogView4 support added!
- 🔥 **2025-03-03**: Wan T2V support added!
- 🔥 **2025-03-03**: We have shipped a complete refactor to support multi-backend distributed training, better precomputation handling for big datasets, model specification format (externally usable for training custom models), FSDP & more.
- 🔥 **2025-02-12**: We have shipped a set of tooling to curate small and high-quality video datasets for fine-tuning. See [video-dataset-scripts](https://github.com/huggingface/video-dataset-scripts) documentation page for details!
- 🔥 **2025-02-12**: Check out [eisneim/ltx_lora_training_i2v_t2v](https://github.com/eisneim/ltx_lora_training_i2v_t2v/)! It builds off of `finetrainers` to support image to video training for LTX-Video and STG guidance for inference.
- 🔥 **2025-01-15**: Support for naive FP8 weight-casting training added! This allows training HunyuanVideo in under 24 GB upto specific resolutions.
- 🔥 **2025-01-13**: Support for T2V full-finetuning added! Thanks to [@ArEnSc](https://github.com/ArEnSc) for taking up the initiative!
- 🔥 **2025-01-03**: Support for T2V LoRA finetuning of [CogVideoX](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/api/pipelines/cogvideox) added!
- 🔥 **2024-12-20**: Support for T2V LoRA finetuning of [Hunyuan Video](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/api/pipelines/hunyuan_video) added! We would like to thank @SHYuanBest for his work on a training script [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/pull/10254).
- 🔥 **2024-12-18**: Support for T2V LoRA finetuning of [LTX Video](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/api/pipelines/ltx_video) added!

## Support Matrix

> [!NOTE]
> The following numbers were obtained from the [release branch](https://github.com/a-r-r-o-w/finetrainers/tree/v0.0.1). The `main` branch is unstable at the moment and may use higher memory.

<div align="center">

| **Model Name**                                 | **Tasks**     | **Min. LoRA VRAM<sup>*</sup>**     | **Min. Full Finetuning VRAM<sup>^</sup>**     |
|:----------------------------------------------:|:-------------:|:----------------------------------:|:---------------------------------------------:|
| [LTX-Video](./docs/models/ltx_video.md)        | Text-to-Video | 5 GB                               | 21 GB                                         |
| [HunyuanVideo](./docs/models/hunyuan_video.md) | Text-to-Video | 32 GB                              | OOM                                           |
| [CogVideoX-5b](./docs/models/cogvideox.md)     | Text-to-Video | 18 GB                              | 53 GB                                         |
| [Wan](./docs/models/wan.md)                    | Text-to-Video | TODO                               | TODO                                          |
| [CogView4](./docs/models/cogview4.md)          | Text-to-Image | TODO                               | TODO                                          |
| [Flux](./docs/models/flux.md)                  | Text-to-Image | TODO                               | TODO                                          |

</div>

<sub><sup>*</sup>Noted for training-only, no validation, at resolution `49x512x768`, rank 128, with pre-computation, using **FP8** weights & gradient checkpointing. Pre-computation of conditions and latents may require higher limits (but typically under 16 GB).</sub><br/>
<sub><sup>^</sup>Noted for training-only, no validation, at resolution `49x512x768`, with pre-computation, using **BF16** weights & gradient checkpointing.</sub>

If you would like to use a custom dataset, refer to the dataset preparation guide [here](./docs/dataset/README.md).

## Featured Projects 🔥

Checkout some amazing projects citing `finetrainers`:
- [Diffusion as Shader](https://github.com/IGL-HKUST/DiffusionAsShader)
- [SkyworkAI's SkyReels-A1](https://github.com/SkyworkAI/SkyReels-A1) & [SkyReels-A2](https://github.com/SkyworkAI/SkyReels-A2)
- [Aether](https://github.com/OpenRobotLab/Aether)
- [MagicMotion](https://github.com/quanhaol/MagicMotion)
- [eisneim's LTX Image-to-Video](https://github.com/eisneim/ltx_lora_training_i2v_t2v/)
- [wileewang's TransPixar](https://github.com/wileewang/TransPixar)
- [Feizc's Video-In-Context](https://github.com/feizc/Video-In-Context)

Checkout the following UIs built for `finetrainers`:
- [jbilcke's VideoModelStudio](https://github.com/jbilcke-hf/VideoModelStudio)
- [neph1's finetrainers-ui](https://github.com/neph1/finetrainers-ui)

## Acknowledgements

* `finetrainers` builds on top of & takes inspiration from great open-source libraries - `transformers`, `accelerate`, `torchtune`, `torchtitan`, `peft`, `diffusers`, `bitsandbytes`, `torchao` and `deepspeed` - to name a few.
* Some of the design choices of `finetrainers` were inspired by [`SimpleTuner`](https://github.com/bghira/SimpleTuner).

Commit message:

Channel-concatenated Control Trainer (#310)
* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* fix

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update trainer with latest changes

* update

* fix lora loading by saving metadata

* support loading tar/parquet from local path

* update

* cogview4 canny example

* remove print

* change canny dataset

* update training script

* log info message to check peft load result

* support torch compile

* update

* remove validation dataset from tree; download from hub instead

* add lora metadata to all specs

* fix for compilation state dict

* remove unnecessary code

* args type

* Wan Control Trainer (#338)

* update

* refactor

* fix tests

* update docstrings

* option to concatenate frame mask

* add example for image-conditioning

* update validation.json

* fixes

* update .gitignore

* update validation

* more bug fixes

* more fixes

* update docs

* update docs

* update docs; unintetional changes due to bumping ruff in same environment as diffusers; bump ruff version

README.md, after:

# finetrainers 🧪

Finetrainers is a work-in-progress library to support (accessible) training of diffusion models and various commonly used training algorithms.

<table align="center">
<tr>
  <td align="center"><video src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/aad07161-87cb-4784-9e6b-16d06581e3e5">Your browser does not support the video tag.</video></td>
  <td align="center"><video src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c23d53e2-b422-4084-9156-3fce9fd01dad">Your browser does not support the video tag.</video></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <th align="center">CogVideoX LoRA training as the first iteration of this project</th>
  <th align="center">Replication of PikaEffects</th>
</tr>
</table>

## Table of Contents

- [Quickstart](#quickstart)
- [Features](#features)
- [News](#news)
- [Support Matrix](#support-matrix)
- [Featured Projects](#featured-projects-)
- [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)

## Quickstart

Clone the repository and make sure the requirements are installed: `pip install -r requirements.txt` and install `diffusers` from source by `pip install git+https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers`. The requirements specify `diffusers>=0.32.1`, but it is always recommended to use the `main` branch of Diffusers for the latest features and bugfixes. Note that the `main` branch for `finetrainers` is also the development branch, and stable support should be expected from the release tags.

Checkout to the latest stable release tag:

```bash
git fetch --all --tags
git checkout tags/v0.1.0
```

Follow the instructions mentioned in the [README](https://github.com/a-r-r-o-w/finetrainers/tree/v0.1.0) for the latest stable release.

#### Using the main branch

To get started quickly with example training scripts on the main development branch, refer to the following:
- [LTX-Video Pika Effects Crush](./examples/training/sft/ltx_video/crush_smol_lora/)
- [CogVideoX Pika Effects Crush](./examples/training/sft/cogvideox/crush_smol_lora/)
- [Wan T2V Pika Effects Crush](./examples/training/sft/wan/crush_smol_lora/)

The following are some simple datasets/HF orgs with good datasets to test training with quickly:
- [Disney Video Generation Dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/Wild-Heart/Disney-VideoGeneration-Dataset)
- [bigdatapw Video Dataset Collection](https://huggingface.co/bigdata-pw)
- [Finetrainers HF Dataset Collection](https://huggingface.co/finetrainers)

Please checkout [`docs/models`](./docs/models/) and [`examples/training`](./examples/training/) to learn more about supported models for training & example reproducible training launch scripts. For a full list of arguments that can be set for training, refer to [`docs/args`](./docs/args.md).

> [!IMPORTANT] 
> It is recommended to use Pytorch 2.5.1 or above for training. Previous versions can lead to completely black videos, OOM errors, or other issues and are not tested. For fully reproducible training, please use the same environment as mentioned in [environment.md](./docs/environment.md).

## Features

- DDP, FSDP-2 & HSDP support for all models
- LoRA and full-rank finetuning; Conditional Control training
- Memory-efficient single-GPU training
- Auto-detection of commonly used dataset formats
- Combined image/video datasets, multiple chainable local/remote datasets, multi-resolution bucketing & more
- Memory-efficient precomputation support with/without on-the-fly precomputation for large scale datasets
- Standardized model specification format for training arbitrary models
- Fake FP8 training (QAT upcoming!)

## News

- 🔥 **2025-04-12**: Channel-concatenated control conditioning support added for CogView4 and Wan!
- 🔥 **2025-04-08**: `torch.compile` support added!
- 🔥 **2025-04-06**: Flux support added!
- 🔥 **2025-03-07**: CogView4 support added!
- 🔥 **2025-03-03**: Wan T2V support added!
- 🔥 **2025-03-03**: We have shipped a complete refactor to support multi-backend distributed training, better precomputation handling for big datasets, model specification format (externally usable for training custom models), FSDP & more.
- 🔥 **2025-02-12**: We have shipped a set of tooling to curate small and high-quality video datasets for fine-tuning. See [video-dataset-scripts](https://github.com/huggingface/video-dataset-scripts) documentation page for details!
- 🔥 **2025-02-12**: Check out [eisneim/ltx_lora_training_i2v_t2v](https://github.com/eisneim/ltx_lora_training_i2v_t2v/)! It builds off of `finetrainers` to support image to video training for LTX-Video and STG guidance for inference.
- 🔥 **2025-01-15**: Support for naive FP8 weight-casting training added! This allows training HunyuanVideo in under 24 GB upto specific resolutions.
- 🔥 **2025-01-13**: Support for T2V full-finetuning added! Thanks to [@ArEnSc](https://github.com/ArEnSc) for taking up the initiative!
- 🔥 **2025-01-03**: Support for T2V LoRA finetuning of [CogVideoX](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/api/pipelines/cogvideox) added!
- 🔥 **2024-12-20**: Support for T2V LoRA finetuning of [Hunyuan Video](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/api/pipelines/hunyuan_video) added! We would like to thank @SHYuanBest for his work on a training script [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/pull/10254).
- 🔥 **2024-12-18**: Support for T2V LoRA finetuning of [LTX Video](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/api/pipelines/ltx_video) added!

## Support Matrix

The following trainers are currently supported:

- [SFT Trainer](./docs/trainer/sft_trainer.md)
- [Control Trainer](./docs/trainer/control_trainer.md)

> [!NOTE]
> The following numbers were obtained from the [release branch](https://github.com/a-r-r-o-w/finetrainers/tree/v0.0.1). The `main` branch is unstable at the moment and may use higher memory.

<div align="center">

| **Model Name**                                 | **Tasks**     | **Min. LoRA VRAM<sup>*</sup>**     | **Min. Full Finetuning VRAM<sup>^</sup>**     |
|:----------------------------------------------:|:-------------:|:----------------------------------:|:---------------------------------------------:|
| [LTX-Video](./docs/models/ltx_video.md)        | Text-to-Video | 5 GB                               | 21 GB                                         |
| [HunyuanVideo](./docs/models/hunyuan_video.md) | Text-to-Video | 32 GB                              | OOM                                           |
| [CogVideoX-5b](./docs/models/cogvideox.md)     | Text-to-Video | 18 GB                              | 53 GB                                         |
| [Wan](./docs/models/wan.md)                    | Text-to-Video | TODO                               | TODO                                          |
| [CogView4](./docs/models/cogview4.md)          | Text-to-Image | TODO                               | TODO                                          |
| [Flux](./docs/models/flux.md)                  | Text-to-Image | TODO                               | TODO                                          |

</div>

<sub><sup>*</sup>Noted for training-only, no validation, at resolution `49x512x768`, rank 128, with pre-computation, using **FP8** weights & gradient checkpointing. Pre-computation of conditions and latents may require higher limits (but typically under 16 GB).</sub><br/>
<sub><sup>^</sup>Noted for training-only, no validation, at resolution `49x512x768`, with pre-computation, using **BF16** weights & gradient checkpointing.</sub>

If you would like to use a custom dataset, refer to the dataset preparation guide [here](./docs/dataset/README.md).

## Featured Projects 🔥

Checkout some amazing projects citing `finetrainers`:
- [Diffusion as Shader](https://github.com/IGL-HKUST/DiffusionAsShader)
- [SkyworkAI's SkyReels-A1](https://github.com/SkyworkAI/SkyReels-A1) & [SkyReels-A2](https://github.com/SkyworkAI/SkyReels-A2)
- [Aether](https://github.com/OpenRobotLab/Aether)
- [MagicMotion](https://github.com/quanhaol/MagicMotion)
- [eisneim's LTX Image-to-Video](https://github.com/eisneim/ltx_lora_training_i2v_t2v/)
- [wileewang's TransPixar](https://github.com/wileewang/TransPixar)
- [Feizc's Video-In-Context](https://github.com/feizc/Video-In-Context)

Checkout the following UIs built for `finetrainers`:
- [jbilcke's VideoModelStudio](https://github.com/jbilcke-hf/VideoModelStudio)
- [neph1's finetrainers-ui](https://github.com/neph1/finetrainers-ui)

## Acknowledgements

* `finetrainers` builds on top of & takes inspiration from great open-source libraries - `transformers`, `accelerate`, `torchtune`, `torchtitan`, `peft`, `diffusers`, `bitsandbytes`, `torchao` and `deepspeed` - to name a few.
* Some of the design choices of `finetrainers` were inspired by [`SimpleTuner`](https://github.com/bghira/SimpleTuner).
`
