tests/README.md, before:

# Running tests

TODO(aryan): everything here needs to be improved.

## `trainer/` fast tests

Accelerate:

```
# world_size=1 tests
accelerate launch --config_file accelerate_configs/uncompiled_1.yaml -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___dp_degree_1___batch_size_1 and ___Accelerate"
accelerate launch --config_file accelerate_configs/uncompiled_1.yaml -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___layerwise_upcasting___dp_degree_1___batch_size_1 and ___Accelerate"

# world_size=2 tests
accelerate launch --config_file accelerate_configs/uncompiled_2.yaml -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___dp_degree_2___batch_size_1 and ___Accelerate"
```

PTD:

```
# world_size=1 tests
torchrun --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node 1 -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___dp_degree_1___batch_size_1 and ___PTD"
torchrun --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node 1 -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___layerwise_upcasting___dp_degree_1___batch_size_1 and ___PTD"
torchrun --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node 1 -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___dp_degree_1___batch_size_2 and ___PTD"

# world_size=2 tests
torchrun --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node 2 -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___dp_degree_2___batch_size_1 and ___PTD"
torchrun --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node 2 -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___layerwise_upcasting___dp_degree_2___batch_size_1 and ___PTD"
torchrun --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node 2 -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___dp_degree_2___batch_size_2 and ___PTD"
torchrun --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node 2 -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___dp_shards_2___batch_size_1 and ___PTD"
torchrun --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node 2 -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___dp_shards_2___batch_size_2 and ___PTD"
torchrun --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node 2 -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___tp_degree_2___batch_size_2 and ___PTD"

# world_size=4 tests
torchrun --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node 4 -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___dp_degree_2___dp_shards_2___batch_size_1 and ___PTD"
```

Commit message:

Channel-concatenated Control Trainer (#310)
* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* fix

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update trainer with latest changes

* update

* fix lora loading by saving metadata

* support loading tar/parquet from local path

* update

* cogview4 canny example

* remove print

* change canny dataset

* update training script

* log info message to check peft load result

* support torch compile

* update

* remove validation dataset from tree; download from hub instead

* add lora metadata to all specs

* fix for compilation state dict

* remove unnecessary code

* args type

* Wan Control Trainer (#338)

* update

* refactor

* fix tests

* update docstrings

* option to concatenate frame mask

* add example for image-conditioning

* update validation.json

* fixes

* update .gitignore

* update validation

* more bug fixes

* more fixes

* update docs

* update docs

* update docs; unintetional changes due to bumping ruff in same environment as diffusers; bump ruff version

tests/README.md, after:

# Running tests

TODO(aryan): everything here needs to be improved.

## `trainer/` fast tests

- For SFT tests: `test_sft_trainer.py`
- For Control tests: `test_control_trainer.py`

Accelerate:

```
# world_size=1 tests
accelerate launch --config_file accelerate_configs/uncompiled_1.yaml -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___dp_degree_1___batch_size_1 and ___Accelerate"
accelerate launch --config_file accelerate_configs/uncompiled_1.yaml -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___layerwise_upcasting___dp_degree_1___batch_size_1 and ___Accelerate"

# world_size=2 tests
accelerate launch --config_file accelerate_configs/uncompiled_2.yaml -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___dp_degree_2___batch_size_1 and ___Accelerate"
```

PTD:

```
# world_size=1 tests
torchrun --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node 1 -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___dp_degree_1___batch_size_1 and ___PTD"
torchrun --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node 1 -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___layerwise_upcasting___dp_degree_1___batch_size_1 and ___PTD"
torchrun --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node 1 -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___dp_degree_1___batch_size_2 and ___PTD"

# world_size=2 tests
torchrun --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node 2 -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___dp_degree_2___batch_size_1 and ___PTD"
torchrun --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node 2 -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___layerwise_upcasting___dp_degree_2___batch_size_1 and ___PTD"
torchrun --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node 2 -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___dp_degree_2___batch_size_2 and ___PTD"
torchrun --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node 2 -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___dp_shards_2___batch_size_1 and ___PTD"
torchrun --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node 2 -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___dp_shards_2___batch_size_2 and ___PTD"
torchrun --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node 2 -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___tp_degree_2___batch_size_2 and ___PTD"

# world_size=4 tests
torchrun --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node 4 -m pytest -s tests/trainer/test_sft_trainer.py -k "test___dp_degree_2___dp_shards_2___batch_size_1 and ___PTD"
```
